Nfiann-manifest (#6933)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/reference/node-selection/state-comparison-caveats.md

dbt run -s "state:modified"
dbt test -s "state:modified" --exclude "test_name:relationships"
```

> ### Manifest overwritten in subsequent parses

Reviewer: i'd suggest shortening this title (e.g. dbt overwrites the manifest.json or something)

> ### Manifest overwritten in subsequent parses

Author: ```suggestion
### Overwrites the `manifest.json`
```

> dbt now overwrites the `manifest.json` file during parsing. This means, if you're referencing `--state` information from the `target/ directory`, you may encounter a warning indicating that the saved manifest was not found, since the `manifest.json` is overwritten during parsing.

Reviewer: since this was introduced in 1.5, it isn't really a 'now' change?
```suggestion
dbt overwrites the `manifest.json` file during parsing, which means when you reference`--state` from the `target/ directory`, you may encounter a warning indicating that the saved manifest wasn't found.
```

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/reference/saved-manifest-not-found.png" title="Saved manifest not found error" /> 

> During the next run, the `target/manifest.json` is overwritten. Following this, it's read again to detect changes, but no changes are found. 

Reviewer: what run?

> During the next run, the `target/manifest.json` is overwritten. Following this, it's read again to detect changes, but no changes are found. 

Reviewer: what is read again?

Additionally, it's not recommended to set `--state` and `--target-path` to the same path while using state-dependent features like `--defer` and `state:modified` as it can lead to non-idempotent behavior, which may not work as expected.

> #### Workaround 

Author: ```suggestion
#### Recommendation

To avoid having the `manifest.json` overwritten before dbt reads it for change detection, you can update your workflow in one of the following ways:
```

> #### Workaround 

Reviewer: is this a workaround or are we saying 'to avoid having it overwritten'?

> - Move the manifest from the `target/` folder to a dedicated folder such as `state/` between step 2 of the run, and in step 4 of the run, use the command `mkdir state && mv target/manifest.json state/manifest.json`.

Reviewer: i dont understand the steps referenced here? what's step 2, step 4?

dbt run -s "state:modified"
dbt test -s "state:modified" --exclude "test_name:relationships"
```
### Overwrites the `manifest.json`

dbt overwrites the `manifest.json` file during parsing, which means when you reference`--state` from the `target/ directory`, you may encounter a warning indicating that the saved manifest wasn't found.

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/reference/saved-manifest-not-found.png" title="Saved manifest not found error" /> 

> During the next run, the `target/manifest.json` is overwritten. Following this, it's read again to detect changes, but no changes are found. 

Author: ```suggestion
During the next run, the `target/manifest.json` is overwritten. Following this, the `target/manifest.json` is read again to detect changes, but no changes are found. 
```

Additionally, it's not recommended to set `--state` and `--target-path` to the same path while using state-dependent features like `--defer` and `state:modified` as it can lead to non-idempotent behavior, which may not work as expected.

#### Recommendation

To avoid having the `manifest.json` overwritten before dbt reads it for change detection, you can update your workflow in one of the following ways:

> - Move the manifest from the `target/` folder to a dedicated folder such as `state/` between step 2 of the run, and in step 4 of the run, use the command `mkdir state && mv target/manifest.json state/manifest.json`.

Author: ```suggestion
- Move the manifest from the `target/` folder to a dedicated folder such as `state/` between the build stage, where dbt would generate the `target/manifest.json` and, instead of comparing the current state with the previous one (for example using `--state` and `--target-path` to the same path while using state-dependent features like `--defer` and `state:modified`), use the command `mkdir state && mv target/manifest.json state/manifest.json`.
```

dbt run -s "state:modified"
dbt test -s "state:modified" --exclude "test_name:relationships"
```
### Overwrites the `manifest.json`

dbt overwrites the `manifest.json` file during parsing, which means when you reference`--state` from the `target/ directory`, you may encounter a warning indicating that the saved manifest wasn't found.

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/reference/saved-manifest-not-found.png" title="Saved manifest not found error" /> 

During the next run, in the reproduction step, the `target/manifest.json` is overwritten. After overwriting, dbt reads the `target/manifest.json` again to detect changes but finds none. 

> As a note, it's not recommended to set `--state` and `--target-path` to the same path while using state-dependent features like `--defer` and `state:modified` as it can lead to non-idempotent behavior, which may not work as expected.

Reviewer: same feedback as here https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/6933/files#r1977825174

#### Recommendation

To prevent the `manifest.json` from being overwritten before dbt reads it for change detection, update your workflow using one of these methods:

- Move the `manifest.json` to a dedicated folder (for example `state/`) after dbt generates it in the `target/ folder` and, use a saved state, instead of comparing the current state with the just-overwritten version:

```

> mkdir state && mv target/manifest.json state/manifest.json

Reviewer: same feedback as here https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/6933/files#r1977768845

```
This ensures dbt compares against the correct previous state, and it avoids issues caused by setting `--state` and `--target-path` to the same path, which can lead to non-idempotent behavior.

- Write the manifest to a different `--target-path` in the build stage (where dbt would generate the `target/manifest.json`) or in the reproduction stage.

> - Pass the `--no-write-json` flag:`dbt --no-write-json ls --select state:modified --state target`: during the reproduction stage.

Reviewer: same feedback as here: https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/6933/files#r1977826586 for reproduction stage
